We'd lecture one day a week, and then two different
days we had sections, a small class deal, and then
one afternoon of four hours a week we had a lab. And
by the way, my section professor or instructor at
that time turned out to be a friend of mine in later
years, Harrington. M.T. Harrington? Yeah. Oh my.
Describe him as a professor. Very good. Very good.
He had a certain charisma about him. You had to like
him. He had a way of getting you interested and
helping you along, and I thought the world of him.
And after
I left his class, I didn't think I'd ever see him
again, but it turned out that later on, he and I
became great friends. He used to come down to my
place in Laredo, and anyway, he was a fine
gentleman, I liked him. I can't say that for
everyone in the chemistry department. As a
sophomore, I'm getting a little ahead, but I'm
just saying these things when I remember them. I
had a sophomore professor in comparative, let's
see,
qualitative analysis. His name I don't remember
what his first name was, but we called him Wee
Willie, Burchard.
I don't question his knowledge of chemistry. His
teaching methods I didn't go much for. I guess
it's an effective way, maybe, but he would ask a
question or you would ask a question And to this day
I never heard him give an answer. I know his method
was to probably get you on track to solving it
yourself, but this doesn't always, sometimes you
need a little help. He needed a little help. And he
just carried it a little too far as far as I was
concerned. But that's neither here nor there. He
was the teacher and I wasn't. But anyway, I had a
German teacher. His name was Baetjer,
B-A-T-J-E-R.
I got, he taught both first and second year German.
And so when I got into the class, well, I met it first
two times, and oh, I was doing well. And the second
time that I met Klaas,
looked at me and he says, , were your parents
German? And I said, no. I said, they sure weren't.
And he said, well, did you happen to, have you
studied German? I said, well, I had German in high
school. He says, and you used that for entrance
credits? And I said, I'm sure I did. I probably used
everything. And he says, you're the wrong class.
So they moved me to second year German. Well, it so
happened that in second year German, there was
Helmkamp, Wieser.
Everyone in there, with the exception of a fellow
named Marshall and myself, all had German
surnames. And Boettcher knew exactly what was
going on because anything that would happen, you
know, they'd be more or less asleep in class, but if
they had to read something, they'd just point to
where and they'd come right out. And he announced
one day, somebody asked him, says, Mr. Bacher, how
do you grade? What is your grading system? And he
says, I use the curve system. And Marshall and I are
just kind of sunk. He says, of course, that doesn't
apply to Mr. Marshall or Mr. Garner. I'm going to
grade them normally, but the rest of you guys are on
the curve system. Anyway, that took care of him. I
don't remember offhand the name of my English
teacher.
Freshman English was the same, it didn't matter,
you know. And I do remember a sophomore English
teacher I had taught a Shakespeare course, very,
very interesting. Who? Do you remember him? Seems
like they had a nickname for him called Oyster Joe.
No, that's history, Oyster Joe Gammon. Well, no.
This fellow was kind of a short, heavy-set man, and
I can't remember. Wasn't Cofer? No, no. No, it
wasn't
Cofer.
It was literature and
it was practically all Shakespeare. And he was
very, very interesting. You know, I'd read those
Shakespeare plays or stories or whatever it were,
and I didn't understand a lot of it. And when he
would read it and explain it, you know, it was then
when you started appreciating what Shakespeare
was. But it was kind of difficult for uneducated
boy to know what he was referred to when he made
certain colloquialisms of their time that we
didn't understand, but that's neither here nor
there. What was the routine for you in terms of
regular study? What was your when and where and how
did you prepare for class? Well, I'm going to have
to tell you something that I hesitate,
but it's the truth.
I wasn't the best student in the world. I mean,
let's put it this way. I had gone through high
school, I'd gone through elementary school,
everything, high school, I always made grades. I
never made anything lower than a B the whole time I
was in school, and I never studied, which is bad,
bad. Our schools, I think they're getting away
from that a lot. All kids, in high school
especially, ought to be challenged so that when
they do go, they know how to study. I had no idea how
to study. And consequently, I didn't study real
well. Sure, I passed the A&M. didn't get kicked out
or anything like that, and I made maybe acceptable
grades, but I could have, I know I could have done so
much better had I applied myself more, or know how
to apply myself, I think. But also, there's
another thing, and we can all, you know, we all look
for crutches.
Once December the 7th, 1941 came along.
No, I shouldn't say no one, but very few people in my
class had their minds on anything else but what's
going to happen here? What's going to happen here?
We just, we were really in an uncertainty. That's
the first time that what was going on in the world
really came across to us. And it just affected our
schooling very much. We lived more or less from
event to event.
enjoyed pleasant things as much as we could, court
trips, football games. All right, let's venture
in that direction. On the campus, for you as a
freshman, describe the routine in the dining
hall.
Well,
we were in, Duncan Hall is freshman and We went to
the had a table of about ten people at a table About
half of them were freshmen and Seniors that the two
ends of the table Juniors that if there was no
seniors present and and sophomores at the other
places, and your main function was to be sure that
they didn't want for anything.
In fact, you were really better off if you didn't
start eating until after they were ready to get up
and leave, and then you hurriedly ate what you
could.
I don't want it to sound like anybody was underfed.
We were not. Everybody was amply fed. No kush, no
dessert until after a certain day, and every day
we'd have to say, 100 days till Cush, or 99 days till
Cush. And if somebody did something wrong, they'd
say, that'll be five more days. So they'd go to 102
days till Cush, which usually went till
Thanksgiving, and then everybody got to Cush.
One thing at the
dining hall at noon,
That's when they would call out special delivery
letters. And, of course, that was a big thing if
your name was called that you had a special
delivery letter to pick up. And they played what we
think of now, and I did even then. I've always been
kind of a music buff. They played the most gorgeous
music of the big band era. at that time the miller
and during the meals oh yes really yes nobody's
ever mentioned that before yeah really so over a pa
system in duncan yes sir yes sir what was the
quality of the food it was good really everybody
griped you know when people griped about the army
food i had wonderful food did you have any favorite
aggie foods
No, not really. Not really. Was there any that you
particularly didn't like?
No, I guess really and truly I
was always an eater and I guess that came from my
bringing up with at my home my mother put the food on
the table and you ate what was on the table and if you
didn't like that you didn't say anything about it.
You either ate it or you just waited until the next
meal. And I never had any problem with the food. I
had a lot of friends that were waiters that kind of
take care of you a little bit. Go ahead. I was going
to say, were there any jokes? Did you all play any
pranks during meals?
Not a whole lot of it really, other than when it came
time for fish sergeant, they usually would take
the most gullible freshman in the outfit and they
would, a little bit ahead of time, they'd start
building this up. that you know says this outfit's
getting kind of rank and it needs somebody to
really keep things going and keep things under
control and says we just don't seem to have anybody
to do that and we're going to have to get us a fish
sergeant. And they would always pick in an outfit
the most gullible person that they could find and
tell him that he was, make him fish sergeant. And
they'd say, now listen, when you're fish
sergeant, you have senior privileges. You do
whatever you want to, but you do have to keep order.
And then they would stage a little set to at which
time he'd really catch hell because they'd stage a
little fight, but they'd really let him have it.
That's about it there in the mess hall. Describe a,
let's see, in mess hall, did you all have cush
questions? No, not to my knowledge. Now, I've
heard in the 50s that that was a ritual. And for you
as a fish, even once cush was available to
freshmen, before you got your cush, you had to
answer a question for which they would have
movable answers. One of the favorites was, how
many stars are there in the Texas flag? And if you
answered one, they said, no, there's two. There's
one on each side. And if you said two, they'd say,
no, there's one. It goes all the way through. So you
still didn't get your cook. Let's see. Describe a
typical day, class day. What time did you get up?
What happened all the way through that day? Okay.
Reveille. If I'm not mistaken, Reveille was
usually about a quarter to seven, or seven, right
around that time. However, as a freshman, you had
to get up and go clean. You were a maid for an
upperclassman, or maybe two upperclassmen,
depending. When
the semester started, that each upperclassman's
room had two, but as the freshmen thinned out, got
down to where one guy had one room, I cleaned up for a
couple of seniors.
Well, no, I started out cleaning up for two
juniors, and it was wonderful. They were great
guys. They weren't as tied up in getting on the
freshmen as most people were. And they were both,
they both liked athletics. And I always played on
the intramural football and basketball and other
teams. We always worked together, so I had a good
deal there. Then I,
freshman, I mean, seniors always had two-room
orders, and one of those
pairs of that, of one pair, they lost one, and I had
to move and go take care of that fellow. So anyway,
that was early in the morning, and then you'd,
after you got their room cleaned up and you'd come
and fix your own then you'd fall out and you'd march
to breakfast. You always marched to the mess hall
but then came back to your room and for the most part
from after breakfast until you went to class if you
had an eight o'clock there was no much going on. You
just got ready and went to class.
You had to have your schedule posted on the door of
your room. And when you weren't in class, you
better be in that room so that you would be
available to run errands or whatever they wanted
you to do. And supposedly you could study at that
time if you wanted to, but that was kind of out of the
question. The only time you could study is very
rarely if everybody else was, all the sophomores
were somewhere else. If they didn't have another
opportunity, they'd use you to amuse themselves
in some way. So you can more or less forget about
studying in the daytime unless you were having
problems with, real problems with a course. And
you could always go to the seniors and they would
get a quietus and, but you better not be lying about
it. You better be telling. And we had,
in the afternoons, well, in the afternoons. One
afternoon we had a drill and
there just wasn't a lot of time, intramural
practice or intramural things and then by that
time it's time to get back and go to eat and then come
back and then get in your room and that is about it.
There was, we left We didn't go out at nights except
to yell practice or something special. At that
time we went to Guyon Hall for different features.
Where could you during the day go outside the
dormitory to study? Yes, if you'd have to get
permission. And you could get permission
supposedly to go to the library.
But boy, if you signed out to go to that library, you
better be there. If you got caught, you got your ass
beat.
This was not supposed to be going on, well I don't
guess it ever was supposed to be going on, but it was
still going on in 1941, I'll tell you. The
paddling. Describe one of those sessions. Where
did it happen and who did it, who was there? Well, in
our outfit, they took the board privileges away
from the sophomores. And it was practically all
administered by a senior or a junior. And
we had some done by sophomores, but who's going to
turn him in? And it was a normal deal.
But when they told you to grab a pooch, well you
reached down and got ahold of your trout and pulled
it up, your butt as tight as it was, and you usually
got three hits. And the paddle was made out of what?
Wood. So they weren't using bats? Oh, no, no, I
never. I've heard those stories and they could
have taken place, but during my time they had some
elaborate boards, baby, but they were boards.
They were not what the bat, no, and it was flat. And
this happened in the hallway? Usually in the
hallway, uh-huh. The hallway or in the bathroom.
You know, we had big bathrooms over there. And
there were a good number of witnesses? Oh, yes,
always. At least, well, when I say a good number, at
least two people there witnessing it. Do you
remember any freshman pranks, jokes, good bull
your first year?
Well, I don't. We had a couple of guys that weren't
real popular in our outfit, and I've been ashamed
of this, but I'm going to tell you anyway.
When we would go down and have, just before taps,
we'd go out and have a little yell practice
battery area. And we were usually out there about
fifteen minutes, from tattoo to taps, ten
minutes, whatever it was. Well,
when we went out there that evening, another
fellow and myself went in these boys'
And we did open their closet doors and take all
their shoes and put them up on the bed. And then we,
in the
laboratory that was there, had the plug in the
bottom, and the overflow deal, we stuffed it with
the deal and turned on both water spigots all the
way, you know. I mean this wasn't anything
original, but it was the only time it had happened
in that dormitory that year. And then we'd go out
and we'd put a towel down there so when the door was
closed, water wouldn't run under the deal. I don't
say some didn't seep, but there wasn't much
running. Well, you can't believe, or maybe you can
believe, how much water in 10 to 15 minutes can
accumulate in a room that size. And I'm telling
you, when they came back, they couldn't hardly
open that door. It swung to the inside, you see. And
when they did get that thing open and water comes
out and down the hall and down the steps and down to
the bottom. And it was funny, but it was not funny.
Were these, now were the victims sophomores? No,
the victims were freshmen. Oh, they were
freshmen,
okay. And they were a couple of freshmen that, you
know, you punished your own, you took care of your
own. I really was kind of a... Now were the guilty
parties in this ever discovered? No, no, no, no.
And the freshmen had to clean up their own room?
Well, no, every freshman had to help. Oh, okay.
Because if it would have just been their room, it
would have been one thing, but it came out and down
the hall and everything else, you see. But anyway,
I mean a lot of people had Pretty good idea who it
was, but there was no real accusations ever made.
All right. Still that first fall, do you remember
your first Yale practice, midnight Yale
practice?
I don't necessarily remember my first one, but I
do, we had,
I remember my first air out. Are you familiar with
air out? Describe that. All right. I found out
later, we didn't know at the time, and you know
there's always somebody in an outfit or something
that their brother had gone to A&M or their uncle or
old friend or something. And a lot of them had
previous information that some of us others
didn't have. Sometimes they were a little
reluctant to pass it on. But anyway, before the
first home game, we'd have an air out, which they
called an air out. Well, it wasn't too bad for me. I
was living on the second floor. I could go right out
that window, but those third floor boys, they had
to come back and go down the steps and all that kind
of stuff. But first thing you do about it, you heard
somebody yell, air out freshmen. And I mean, they
had belts and things like that, you know, and
popping them around. And we, my roommate and I had a
little previous knowledge that there was going,
that was going to take place. And we were ready. And
when they, when we heard the first noise, we had our
titty shoes on and we went right out that window on
that second floor. And we, you didn't show up until
the next morning, you know. But Yale practice was a
great thing. Where was it held? Over in front of
Goodwin, Goodwin Hall at that time. Goodwin Hall.
Now, was it a midnight yell practice? Was it held
that late? No. It was usually around noon. rent
seven thirty on friday nights right before the
game and so the primary wait a minute excuse me just
meant it was on friday night for home game for home
games and the people who were there were almost
core students only because there weren't many
there would be a few teachers instructors and so on
and so forth and a few girls but not many out of town
dates No, there might have been a few, but I hardly
remember any because the girls that came to home
games usually didn't arrive until Saturday. Do
you remember going to those first home football
games? What was that like? It was a revelation to me
to go and stand up at a football game all the time.